The model was developed in several steps: (1) representation of total VFA (tVFA) PR in the rumen (tVFA-PR, mmol/d/kg BW); (2) representation of the individual VFA (iVFA) molar proportions in the rumen fluid ([iVFA] / [tVFA], mol/mol); (3) estimation of a correction factor (Cor-iVFA) for the difference between concentration and production in VFA molar proportions. Lastly, the individual VFA production rate in the rumen (iVFA-PR, mmol/d/kg BW) was calculated as follows:
Predicted iVFA-PR = Predicted tVFA-PR ℅ Predicted [iVFA] / [tVFA] ℅ Cor-iVFA.
For prediction of tVFA-PR, and quantification of Cor-iVFA, the VFA-Prod database (Nozi豕re et al., 2007) was used with published in vivo measurements on rumen VFA-PR using dilution techniques in ovine, growing buffalo or cattle, and cows. A consistent and homogeneous description of chemical composition and nutritional values of feeds and diets included in the VFA-Prod database was made using INRA Feed Tables (2007), assuming additivity of tabulated values, as described by Loncke et al. (2009).
For prediction of [iVFA] / [tVFA], the BoviDig database (Sauvant et al., 2000) was used with reported simultaneous measurements of digestive fluxes (total tract apparent digestibility of organic matter (OM) and neutral detergent fibre (NDF), and/or duodenal fluxes of OM, NDF, starch) and molar proportion of VFA in the rumen of bovines, including lactating, growing, and non-producing animals.
Both VFA-Prod and BoviDig databases included a large range of dry matter (DM) intake (4 to 45 g DM/d/kg BW) and diet composition (12 to 79% NDF). The VFA molar proportions in the rumen fluid presented a wide variability, 44 to 79% for acetate (C2), 13 to 44% for propionate (C3), 5 to 20% for butyrate (C4), 0.3 to 10.5% for the minor VFA. For each step during model development, a first covariable was identified as the main predictor, from a physiological perspective and based on previous results on prediction of NPA of VFA from INRA feed tables, as described by Loncke et al. (2009). The intake of rumen fermentable OM (RfOM intake, g/d/kg BW) was assessed as the main predictor of tVFA-PR, with RfOM = digestible OM in total tract每fat每non degradable CP in sacco每non degradable starch in sacco每fermentation products of silages (INRA, 2007). The dNDF/ dOM ratio, calculated from measured digestible NDF (dNDF) and OM (dOM) in total tract, was assessed as predictor of molar proportions of individual VFA in the rumen fluid. Within-experiment models were adjusted using the GLM procedure, with experiment as a fixed effect (Sauvant et al., 2008). Significant additional predictors, including intake level, dietary composition, site and extent of digestion, were detected using analysis of interfering factors on residuals, LSMeans and slopes, and subsequently tested as additional covariables. For variables retained in the final models the criterion was that they should be available from INRA Feed Tables.
Evaluation of the VFA-PR model
For the evaluation of the model against independent data, the Flora database (Vernet and Ortigues-Marty, 2006) was used with published in vivo measurements on NPA of VFA on multicatheterized ruminants. The database contained a consistent and homogeneous description of feeds and diets according to INRA Feed Tables (Loncke et al., 2009). Model prediction of iVFA-PR was compared for each experimental treatment with measured iVFA-NPA. The treatments covered a wide range of levels of feed intake (6 to 42 g DM/d/kg BW) and diet composition (14 to 71% NDF). For diets containing silages, predicted tVFA-PR was incremented, assuming 11 mol of absorbable VFA/kg fermentation product of silages (INRA, 2007). The relationships between predicted iVFA-PR and measured iVFA-NPA was analysed using the GLM procedure with the experiment as a fixed effect, and using analysis of interfering factors on residuals, LSMeans and slopes.
Data were analyzed using Minitab statistical software. For each model, the intercept and slopes (㊣SE) are reported, as well as number of experiments (Nexp) and experimental treatments (Nt) used for model adjustment, R2 and residual standard deviation (Syx).